# Overview
This is an internal repo where we can prototype interesting examples of using painless to achieve adhoc data analysis with Elasticsearch. The idea is to have somewhere we can collaborate on developing examples before publishing more widely. An example must include a working painless snippet and a python test harness. The test harness must be able to create an index against which one can exercise the functionality and allow one to run it via the python client. Ideally, any important implementation details should be discussed in the README of each example. It is fine to include multiple implementations of the same task to showcase different features of painless. As a minimum discussions should include dangers and mitigations, such as using and how to avoid using too much memory in a scripted metric aggregation.

# Motivation
This grew out of a request to implement the [apriori](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Apriori_algorithm#:~:text=Apriori%20is%20an%20algorithm%20for,sufficiently%20often%20in%20the%20database.) algorithm within the Elastic stack. It turns out that a scripted metric aggregation is able to do this, which is great. However, it is not straightforward to work out how to do this if 1. your primary programming language is not Java, 2. you use only the existing documentation. These examples are intended to provide a reference place where data scientist users of Elasticsearch can see pedagogical examples of using scripting to perform adhoc data analysis tasks with Elasticsearch. Aside from providing useful out-of-the-box functionality, the hope is to showcase how much one can achieve and help introduce this community to this useful functionality.
